Short Course 1 (Wednesday, January 8th, 9am-12pm) 

Making sense of the black box: what can conformal inference offer the theory and practice of data science?

John Cherian is a 5th-year PhD student at Stanford University supported by the Hertz Foundation. Advised by Emmanuel Candès, he works on problems in model-free inference and uncertainty quantification. He also consults for <em>The Washington Post</em>, where he applies this research to night-of election models. Prior to the PhD, John spent three years at D.E. Shaw Research improving molecular dynamics simulations for structural biology and drug discovery.

New artificial intelligence models have delivered impressive performance improvements over a diverse array of tasks, but their reliability across different contexts or subpopulations is not assured. Therefore, it is important to quantify uncertainty <strong>before</strong> we take consequential actions that leverage AI outputs. This tutorial will introduce an increasingly popular framework for this task: conformal inference. Conformal methods quantify uncertainty for future predictions without making any distributional assumption whatsoever other than having i.i.d. or, more generally, exchangeable data. This talk will review the basic principles underlying conformal inference, contextualize the framework’s relationship to classical statistical methods, and survey some major contributions that have occurred in the last 2-3 years. These include (but are not limited to) new methods that enable stronger validity guarantees, further relaxation of the aforementioned distributional assumption, and trustworthy identification of the most promising subset of predictions. We will motivate each of these techniques with real-world problems, and discuss the practical obstacles that lie between the theory of conformal prediction and its practice. While the majority of the tutorial will presume an undergraduate background in probability and statistics, we will conclude this session with a more advanced discussion of the theoretical properties of conformal methods.
