Short Course - GenAI 2 (Friday, January 10th, 1pm-4pm) 

Tutorial on Deep Learning and Generative AI

Dr. Haoda Fu is Head of Exploratory Biostatistics in Amgen, before that he was an Associate Vice President and an Enterprise Lead for Machine Learning, Artificial Intelli- gence, from Eli Lilly and Company. Dr. Haoda Fu is a Fellow of ASA (American Statistical Association), and IMS Fellow (Institute of Mathematical Statistics). He is also an adjunct professor of biostatistics department, Univ. of North Carolina Chapel Hill and Indiana university School of Medicine. Dr. Fu received his Ph.D. in statistics from University of Wisconsin - Madison in 2007 and joined Lilly after that. Since he joined Lilly, he is very active in statistics and data science methodology research. He has more than 100 publi- cations in the areas, such as Bayesian adaptive design, survival analysis, recurrent event modeling, personalized medicine, indirect and mixed treatment comparison, joint modeling, Bayesian decision making, and rare events analysis. In recent years, his research area focuses on machine learning and artificial intelligence. His research has been published in various top journals including JASA, JRSS-B, Biometrika, Biometrics, ACM, IEEE, JAMA, Annals of Internal Medicine etc.. He has been teaching topics of machine learning and AI in large industry conferences including teaching this topic in FDA workshop. He was board of directors for statistics organizations and program chairs, committee chairs such as ICSA, ENAR, and ASA Biopharm session. He is a COPSS Snedecor Awards committee member from 2022-2026, and also served as an associate editor for JASA theory and method from 2023, and JASA application and case study from 2025-2027.

This course is tailored for individuals with a solid background in statistics or biostatistics, focusing on deep learning and generative AI. Starting with foundational deep learning concepts, participants will implement models using PyTorch, explore popular AI architectures like CNN, GNN, ResNet, U-net, and transformers, and address applications in medical imaging and drug discovery. The course will also introduce generative AI including GANs, VAEs, DDPM, score-based models, and also how LLM works. It offers a comprehensive insight by providing mental models into applying AI in healthcare, research, and beyond.
